Troubleshooting is a very hard part of my experience. You don't know what to do. You don't know how. Why is it like this, why is it like that. Too many questions to ask. But the best part of it is that I, in my own way, have learned many things from it.

We make mistakes so as they do too. I am referring to computers. Because they are made by humans. Computers rely on us. Without us, they do not exist. They malfunctioned, we fixed them, that is what we called troubleshooting. They need our help and we need them too. They are the easiest way of searching for some details we do not know.

During the first year, the first semester in our computer technology subject. We were given our first project, regulated power supply, by our instructor. I was able to make the regulated power supply but when I pass my project my instructor told me that something is wrong and I must troubleshoot it. He told me to recheck the connection if it is right or if it is not short-circuited. And I have found out that my project is in the series connection and one of the LED is not functioning that is why the lights went out. so what I did was, I changed the LED that is not working with a new one. Finally, I was able to pass my project correctly.

During the skill test in troubleshooting the breadboard, we were using an integrated circuit with the wires not neatly placed very well like it was very scrambled to look at it, knowingly having a second thought that I could not fix it, just merely trying to look at my breadboard is so frustrating and we were just second-year college at that time. I would like to tell you that I am not that kind of student who can solve a problem like that so easily. I was trying to overcome my fear, clearing my mind, analyzing the circuit, for some moment of thinking, comes into my mind that there was a schematic diagram in that circuit. I looked at the diagram while rechecking the circuit step by step, wire by wire, so as the connection of each integrated circuit. Surprisingly I have located some of the misplaced wires, some have no connection, while the others run on different IC's. The next step I made was, I replaced the wires, add some wires, and place the connection in the right IC, then I run again my circuit and then, voila, my circuit is well functioning. I forgot I must tell you that time is your common enemy to deal with, the faster you fixed the circuit the higher the grade is given unto you. It was my lucky day that I have finished troubleshooting on time. 

We were assigned to troubleshoot a system unit, what we have observed was the monitor won't turn on. The computer turns on for a few seconds. There's a bloated capacitor in the power. The fuse in the power supply is bloated. The fans attached in the system works well. The LED on the motherboard always lights up when it is plugged in, we were thinking of some possible solutions based on our observation. Since the capacitor in the power supply is bloated, it has to be replaced. Also, the fuse is bloated it has to be replaced. We think that the power supply is the problem, so we concluded that we have to replace the power supply with a new one with the same specifications.


At some other point when we were told by our instructor to troubleshoot a raspberry pi, we can say that the raspberry pi is functional because of the following observations: there was an operating system installed in it already, cables & wires are also functional that's why there is a continuous flow of electricity, correct voltage & source, correct connection with the devices. In my opinion, the first thing we must do in troubleshooting is to familiarize the thing you are being told to do so. 

The 5bit binary adder/subtractor, another common project given by our instructor. Is it possible to add or subtract binary without using a calculator? Does this question ever happen to cross unto your mind? In the process of making the right connection, it is a bit tricky and so confusing to have a logic performing addition and subtraction. Now, we made the circuit on the breadboard using the correct ICs we needed to use. Then recheck the breadboard if the connection is correct, then we apply voltage using a regulated power supply. We noticed that some lights won't work while the others are twinkling brightly. We check the regulator if it functions very well, and it does. Now we were able to make a decision that the problem is in the ICs we used. We check each IC using a simple equation one by one, we need an IC that is well functioning. Then a few moments later we found out what IC is broken or as what I have said is not functioning, so we practically bought another IC which is too expensive which is sold for 50Php, but we didn't think more about it because its price is worth having a functional 5bit binary adder/subtractor. 

Being a good friend, I'm sorry to tell you this but I will be frank enough to say these words and you might keep it as a piece of friendly advice about on your teaching experience, I know that you, sir max, is a fresh graduate and have the least experience in your teaching. I can understand our topic but the only thing that is a great barrier for me is that the way you teach us. But I know deep inside of you, you are trying your very best to help us give lots of pieces of information about that topic. Let me give these some pointers I want you to do during the class period. First of all, make your students feel comfortable inside the classroom, a catchy impression of a teacher creates a better relationship with the students, make some jokes, not too much seriousness.
